docs/further-reading.rst, before:

===============================
Further reading / knowledgebase
===============================

The `Locust wiki <https://github.com/locustio/locust/wiki/>`_ serves as a community maintained knowledgebase for Locust, augmenting the official documentation.

- `Extensions <https://github.com/locustio/locust/wiki/Extensions>`_ Third party extensions and tools

- `Articles <https://github.com/locustio/locust/wiki/Articles>`_ Blog posts with reviews & walkthroughs of how to run Locust in various use cases

- `Frequently Asked Questions <https://github.com/locustio/locust/wiki/FAQ>`_ Common questions about Locust answered here

You'll also find a lot of answers on `stackoverflow <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/locust?sort=MostVotes>`_, for example:

- `BadStatusLine Errors <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31600508/locust-io-load-testing-getting-connection-aborted-badstatusline-errors>`_

- `Passing HTTP Headers <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52007848/locust-passing-headers>`_

- `POST file upload <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36163355/proper-post-file-upload-load-testing-with-locust>`_

- `How often does Locust perform dns queries? <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36087637/how-often-does-python-requests-perform-dns-queries>`_

In other words, just google whatever problem or error message you're getting and you are likely to find good answers out there.

If you think Locust is missing some obvious feature (like stopping after a certain number of iterations/requests, setting goals/thresholds for when to fail a test run, support for additional User types like Kafka, Selenium/WebDriver etc), chances are it is implemented in `locust-plugins <https://github.com/SvenskaSpel/locust-plugins/>`_.

Commit message:

Move imported files to lowercase, update wiki links to docs links

docs/further-reading.rst, after:

===============================
Further reading / knowledgebase
===============================

- :ref:`extensions`.

- An unmaintained list of Locust `articles, blog posts, reviews, and walkthroughs <https://github.com/orgs/locustio/discussions/2752>`_.

- :ref:`Common questions and answers about Locust <faq>`.

You'll also find a lot of answers on `stackoverflow <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/locust?sort=MostVotes>`_, for example:

- `BadStatusLine Errors <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/31600508/locust-io-load-testing-getting-connection-aborted-badstatusline-errors>`_

- `Passing HTTP Headers <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52007848/locust-passing-headers>`_

- `POST file upload <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36163355/proper-post-file-upload-load-testing-with-locust>`_

- `How often does Locust perform dns queries? <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36087637/how-often-does-python-requests-perform-dns-queries>`_

In other words, just google whatever problem or error message you're getting and you are likely to find good answers out there.

If you think Locust is missing some obvious feature (like stopping after a certain number of iterations/requests, setting goals/thresholds for when to fail a test run, support for additional User types like Kafka, Selenium/WebDriver etc), chances are it is implemented in `locust-plugins <https://github.com/SvenskaSpel/locust-plugins/>`_.
