docs/running-in-docker.rst, before:

.. _running-in-docker:

=================
Running in Docker
=================

The official Docker image is at `locustio/locust <https://hub.docker.com/r/locustio/locust>`_.

Use it like this (assuming that the ``locustfile.py`` exists in the current working directory)::

    docker run -p 8089:8089 -v $PWD:/mnt/locust locustio/locust -f /mnt/locust/locustfile.py

On Windows, this command will sometimes cause errors. Windows users should try using this instead::

    docker run -p 8089:8089 --mount type=bind,source=$pwd,target=/mnt/locust locustio/locust -f /mnt/locust/locustfile.py


Docker Compose
==============

Here's an example Docker Compose file that could be used to start both a master node, and worker nodes:

.. literalinclude:: ../examples/docker-compose/docker-compose.yml
    :language: yaml

The above compose configuration could be used to start a master node and 4 workers using the following command::

    docker-compose up --scale worker=4


Use docker image as a base image
================================

It's very common to have test scripts that rely on third party python packages. In those cases you can use the
official Locust docker image as a base image::

    FROM locustio/locust
    RUN pip3 install some-python-package


Running a distributed load test on Kubernetes
=============================================

The easiest way to run Locust on Kubernetes is to use a `Helm chart <https://helm.sh/>`_.

There is a good helm chart here: `github.com/deliveryhero/helm-charts <https://github.com/deliveryhero/helm-charts/tree/master/stable/locust>`_.

Note: this Helm chart is a separate project, and not supported by Locust maintainers.

Commit message:

docs (#2188):  Add Locust Kubernetes Operator
locustio/locust#2188 

- Update `Running a distributed load test on Kubernetes` docs section to include Locust Kubernetes Operator. 
- Small reformat of the section to clearly list all possibilities (HELM & Operator)  in a structured manner.

docs/running-in-docker.rst, after:

.. _running-in-docker:

=================
Running in Docker
=================

The official Docker image is at `locustio/locust <https://hub.docker.com/r/locustio/locust>`_.

Use it like this (assuming that the ``locustfile.py`` exists in the current working directory)::

    docker run -p 8089:8089 -v $PWD:/mnt/locust locustio/locust -f /mnt/locust/locustfile.py

On Windows, this command will sometimes cause errors. Windows users should try using this instead::

    docker run -p 8089:8089 --mount type=bind,source=$pwd,target=/mnt/locust locustio/locust -f /mnt/locust/locustfile.py


Docker Compose
==============

Here's an example Docker Compose file that could be used to start both a master node, and worker nodes:

.. literalinclude:: ../examples/docker-compose/docker-compose.yml
    :language: yaml

The above compose configuration could be used to start a master node and 4 workers using the following command::

    docker-compose up --scale worker=4


Use docker image as a base image
================================

It's very common to have test scripts that rely on third party python packages. In those cases you can use the
official Locust docker image as a base image::

    FROM locustio/locust
    RUN pip3 install some-python-package


Running a distributed load test on Kubernetes
==============================================

HELM
*****

One of the ways to run Locust on Kubernetes is to use a `Helm chart <https://helm.sh/>`_.

There is a good helm chart here: `github.com/deliveryhero/helm-charts <https://github.com/deliveryhero/helm-charts/tree/master/stable/locust>`_.

Note: this Helm chart is a separate project, and not supported by Locust maintainers. 

Kubernetes Operator
*******************
Another way to run Locust on Kubernetes is to use the `Locust Kubernetes Operator <https://abdelrhmanhamouda.github.io/locust-k8s-operator/>`_.

The Locust Operator is designed to unlock easy, seamless & effortless distributed performance testing in the cloud.

Note: the Locust Kubernetes Operator is a separate project and is not supported by Locust maintainers.
